Data Hub Guide & Studio Pro updates (#2744)
mendix/docs: content/refguide/consumed-odata-service-requirements.md

---
title: "Consumed OData Service Requirements"
parent: "consumed-odata-services"
menu-order: 20
description: "Requirements on OData services consumed in Mendix."
tags: ["studio pro"]
#If moving or renaming this doc file, implement a temporary redirect and let the respective team know they should update the URL in the product. See Mapping to Products for more details.
---

{{% todo %}}[Compare to information published in the DH guide for repetitions and add x-refs. Can this be integrated into intro doc?]{{% /todo %}}

## 1 Introduction

This document describes the requirements for an OData service that is going to be consumed. These requirements are not further verified at runtime and expected to hold. If these requirements are not met, errors may result.

## 2 Requirements for a Consumed OData Service

The requirements for a consumed OData service used in a Mendix app project are the following: 

* The OData service must be either an OData v3 service returning Atom XML, or an OData v4 service returning either Atom XML or JSON

> * It should support queries on the OData feed, including `$filter`, `$orderby`, `$top`, `$skip`, `$expand`, `$count` (or `$inlinecount`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* It should support queries on the OData feed, including `$filter`, `$orderby`, `$top`, `$skip`, `$expand`, and `$count` (or `$inlinecount`)
```

Author: @MarkvanMents isn't it better to make such commits yourself directly rather than require language/doc standards review then commit? We are coming down to the wire here in prep to publish tomorrow morning.

* **Filterable** – marking an entity set as `Filterable="false"` sets all properties as non-filterable; marking properties as non-filterable in the `NonFilterableProperties` annotation prevents the user from adding these as attributes in the project
* **Sortable** – marking an entity set as `Sortable="false"` sets all properties as non-sortable; marking properties as non-sortable in the `NonSortableProperties` annotation prevents the user from adding these as attributes in the project

An entity can only be used when it is accessible through an entity set.

Furthermore, an entity can only be used if it is uniquely identifiable with a key. The key can consist of one or more properties, as long as the following conditions are met:

* Those properties cannot be nullable (so they must have `isNullable="false"` specified)
* Only the following types are allowed: `Byte`, `SByte`, `Int16`, `Int32`, `Int64`, `Boolean`, `Decimal`, `Single`, `Double`, and `String`
* If the type is `String`, a `MaxLength` must be specified

### 3.2 Attributes

{{% alert type="warning" %}}
Attributes marked as `FC_KeepInContent=false` cannot be used.
{{% /alert %}}

> Attribute types have to be primitive (not complex, collections or enumerations). The types of the attributes in your app will be based on the types of the attributes in the OData metadata, as given in the following table:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Attribute types have to be primitive (not complex, collections, or enumerations). The types of the attributes in your app will be based on the types of the attributes in the OData metadata, as given in the following table:
```

Author: @MarkvanMents isn't it better to make such commits yourself directly rather than require language/doc standards review then commit? We are coming down to the wire here in prep to publish tomorrow morning.

| OData Type | Mendix Type |
| --- | --- |

> | Binary                         | Binary (but see 2.4) |

Reviewer: Where is 2.4?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Binary                         | Binary (but see 3.4) |
```

| Boolean                        | Boolean <sup><small>[1]</small></sup> |
| Byte, SByte, Int16, Int32      | Integer |
| DateTime, DateTimeOffset, Time | Date/time |
| Decimal, Double, Single        | Decimal <sup><small>[2]</small></sup> |
| Int64                          | Long |
| String, Guid                   | String |
| (Other)                        | (Ignored) |

{{% alert type="warning" %}}
When the OData endpoint contains operations, these are not imported in the consumed OData service. You can use a [Call REST service](call-rest-action) activity to call these operations.
{{% /alert %}}

> <sup><small>[1]</small></sup>: In Mendix, Booleans cannot be null. When the service returns null, the value will be false in Mendix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<sup><small>[1]</small></sup>: In Mendix, Booleans cannot be null. If the service returns null, the value will be false in Mendix.
```

> <sup><small>[2]</small></sup>: Decimal values outside of the range of a Mendix decimal are currently not supported. When the service returns a value outside of the range, there will be an error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<sup><small>[2]</small></sup>: Decimal values outside of the range of a [Mendix decimal](attributes#type) are currently not supported. If the service returns a value outside of the range, there will be an error.
```
Help the user find out the range of a Mendix decimal

Author: @MarkvanMents isn't it better to make such commits yourself directly rather than require language/doc standards review then commit? We are coming down to the wire here in prep to publish tomorrow morning.

### 3.3 Generalizations

{{% todo %}}[Investigate what this means precisely ]{{% /todo %}}

> The consumed OData service does not support importing generalizations, which means that when you import entities that are each other's generalization, they will be imported independently without a generalization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The consumed OData service does not support importing generalizations. This means that when you import entities that are each other's generalization, they will be imported as unrelated entities.
```

> When you are consuming a Mendix OData endpoint, do not import both a generalization and its specification; that is not supported.

Reviewer 2: They don't specify - they just said that they are not supported.

### 3.4 Binary Attributes

> The binary data format is supported in the form of *media entities*. When a media entity is dragged into the domain model, a corresponding external entity is created. The entity will have a `contents` attribute with the binary data.

Reviewer: I don't understand this. Whenever you drag something into the domain model an external entity is created, not just for media entities.

This is the only reference to "media entities" and I think it needs more clarification.
